# Direct-Alpha-Method
Thi is a website page on the Direct Alpha (DA) method of Gredil, Griffiths and Stucke to estimate annualized excess return of a 'private equity'-like fund that is well-founded in theory, while directly accounting for the risk-factor realizations and compounding returns over multiple periods of irregular lengths. The paper is published in the Jounral of Corporate Finance, Special Issue on Private Equity. 

In a nutshell, DA is simply the Internal Rate of Returns (IRR) computed from the cash flows of the fund that were discounted using the returns of the benchmark portfolio. One of the key advantages of DA is therefore the fact most potential users already know how to compute it. The choice of benchmark portfolio however is critically important for the economic interpretation and statistical properties. Our methodology applies to other investment vehicles that are structured as PE fund partnerships, hold hard-to-value assets, and endure long lives (e.g., Infrastructure, Private Credit).

It is intuitive to view DA as annualized Kaplan Schoar (2005) Public Market Equivalent (PME) in a way that does not require an estimate of a duration of the fund. The relations between the Kaplan-Scholar PME and DA is analogous to that between the fund money multiple and the IRR (computed off the raw cash flows). However, to the extent the selected discount factors reflects the realized risk premia or the fund- or deal-specific risk exposures, DA inherits the more general interpretations and superior statistical properties from Generalized PME of Korteweg and Nagel (2016, 2021) and the fund mimicking benchmark portfolio of Gupta and Van Nieuwerburgh (2021).

We show how DA relates to other methods developed in the industry and applied work to estimate the annualized performance of PE funds. Specifically, we provide consistent notation and review the methodology of the Index Comparison Method (ICM) of Long and Nickels (1996), which is recognized as the first of the various PME methods, the PME+ of Rouvinez (2003) and Capital Dynamics, and the mPME by Cambridge Associates (2013). We use Burgiss data on cash flows of 4,188 buyout and venture funds and show that DA results in significantly different mean and variance of annualized PE fund returns when compared to the aforementioned heuristic estimates and duration-based approximations. The discrepancies are particularly stark for the venture sample and are larger than those arising from the benchmark choice and adjustments for the expected risk-quantity. We also show that the choice of PE fund alpha metric is consequential for fund ranking within its peers. The level of concordance with DA is as low as 46% for the middle two quartiles for ICM-PME but improves to 85% for Kaplan-Schoar PME adjusted for fund-specific duration estimates. The risk of severe misranking relatively to DA remains salient, nonetheless.

Several studies (see, inter alia, Phalippou and Gottschalg 2009; Driessen, Lin, and Phalippou 2012) have constructed the cash flow-specific discount rates as market return plus alpha and proposed solving for alpha that produces zero Net Present Value (analogously to solving for a bond credit spread). However, this approach too results in numerically different values from DA as (r_t+a)-series compound differently than r_t. Most importantly, DA yields economically valid alpha estimates even with non-tradeable risk factors.

See \code-folder for codes to compute DA and other metrics (from simulated data).   
